Read FIDAP
==========

AVS/Express developer edition and this FIDAP reader currently work with FIDAP Version 7
from Fluid Dynamics International (now part of Fluent).
Results created with FIDAP must be saved in the ASCII neutral file format.
	
In order to use FIDAP results with the "Read FIDAP" module, a FIDAP results file
must be created with the appropriate information in it.
See the FIDAP Users Manual on how to produce the .FDNEUT FIDAP Neutral File.  
These files generally have the .FDNEUT extension.
	
Currently, the Read FIDAP module supports the following fields that result
from the FIDAP solution of equations:

Data Item              	Component
---------               ---------
Velocity		velocity
Pressure		pressure
Temperature		temperature
Density			density
Species #		species concentration
Turbulent KE		turbulent kinetic energy k
Dissipation 		viscous dissipation (rate of turbulent kinetic energy)
Displacement		free surface position 


The output of this module is an AVS/Express FIELD, with unstructured mesh
and multi-component node data. The node data varies with time, and
the module interface allows animating over time, or selecting a specific
time result. The output field is also available as a GDobject, to be
rendered directly with no additional filters. An output float variable
is set to the current time sample, and may be used for annotation.


File Selection
--------------
The filename may be enterred into the typein box directly, or
the "browse..." button will bring up an interactive file selection menu.
Once selected, the full path of the current file is shown in in the text box.

Selection of Data Items
-----------------------
Once the file is selected, the available data components are shown in an
option box list. Single or multiple components may be selected for access.
This list is dynamic, and will be blank on start up. The contents of the
list are updated from the file.


Selection of Time States
------------------------
One, all, or some subset of available time states may be accessed from
the file. The start, end, and increment parameters control what is
to be brought from the file to memory. The default is to only bring
in the 1st time step. If you want more, (such as to do an animation)
then the user must change the increment to 1 (for loading all time states),
or some other number smaller than the number in the file.


Reading the Mesh & Results
--------------------------
Two read trigger buttons are available, Read Mesh, and Read Results.
Usually, you only need to push the Read_Mesh once. Once time
selections and data selections have been made, push the Read_Results
button. Atthis point data should be on the output port for processing
or visualization.


Animating Time States
---------------------
If multiple time states have been loaded, then the animation panel
can be used to set up a sequence of time states to loop or cyle
automatically. A slider can be set to immediate mode, and
the mouse moved along the time line for dynamic result animation.


Implementation
--------------
The module is derived from code in the UCD_Builder fidap2meta translator.
Initial conversion work was by ICS Stuttgart, with further work by
I. Curington, Advanced Visual Systems Inc.

The module is an AVS/Express project, with a directory containing
all the C and V components. Two V libraries are used:

 - rdfdmods.v defines the low level C code interface.

 - rdfdmacs.v defines the full user macro with user interface systems.

The user interface is available in 3 forms:
  rdFidap_base - raw panels to be connected to a UIshell or other parent.

  Read_Fidap_Dialog - popup dialog based interface, with a "visible"
                      parameter to be connected to a File-Open menu bar.

  Read_Fidap_Module - UImod_panel version for auto-connect behavior
                      with the module stack areas of Single or
                      Multi-Window App frameworks.

The code is linked into the express process by default. It has not
been tested in the user process, but is likely to be slow if you try it.

